Good afternoon.
Welcome to session 226,
Core Text and Fonts.
My name is Ned Holbrook.
I'll be your tour guide
for this afternoon.
We've got quite a few
things to speak about,
so let's get started.
So we're going to be discussing a
number of things this afternoon.
First of all,
we're going to be discussing new
features provided by Core Text in
Mountain Lion and iOS 6.
The two big ones are a new
API for accessing line bounds,
and we're going to be
discussing baseline alignment.
We're also going to be touching on
a number of individual techniques.
We'll be giving a quick
overview of vertical text.
We'll be talking about
a number of font topics.
And along the way,
we'll also be mentioning some
advice for you to keep in mind
while working with Core Text in
order to avoid any common pitfalls.
[Transcript missing]
I'd like to call your attention
especially to UIKit as in iOS 6,
UIKit now offers some really great
support for attributed strings.
So the reason I call this out is
because there might be some people
in this room who are looking at
Core Text because previously there
was no real UIKit level mechanism
for dealing with attributed strings.
And so we're really delighted
to have that available in iOS 6.
And so if you're here
just because of that,
then I encourage you to check out the
UIKit sessions on attributed strings.
There was one just now that
you can catch on video later,
I'm sure.
And there will be another
advanced session tomorrow,
so you can check your schedule for that.
And of course,
Core Text is the heart of complex
text layout on WebKit as well.
So this talk assumes that we're
going to be talking about the
core text of complex text layout.
This talk assumes that you
have used Core Text before.
We're going to be talking
specifically about Core Text.
But again, if you're not comfortable
dealing with it directly,
then please talk to our
hair level framework.
Core Text has been available in
OS X since Leopard and iOS 3.2.
Basically what that means is that
if you're targeting any sort of
modern platform at this point,
Core Text will be there.
Core Text itself is a
top-level framework on iOS,
meaning it lives in
system library frameworks,
and that's where you link to it.
And also on Mountain Lion.
So previous to Mountain Lion,
Core Text was a part of the application
services umbrella framework,
which meant that in
order to use Core Text,
you had to link to application services.
But as I mentioned on Mountain Lion,
it is now also a top-level framework.
So your existing code will
continue to function just fine,
but for new OS X projects,
we encourage you to go ahead
and link to Core Text directly
in system library frameworks.
I'd be remiss if I didn't point out
that atsui and ATS for text layout
and font management on OS X are
still incredibly deprecated.
So if you have any legacy code that is
still using either of these frameworks,
now is definitely the time
to plan your exit strategy.
And so in particular,
some ATS functionality has
only relatively recently
been moved into Core Text.
So if you were kind of on the
edge there with making the move,
we think everything is
in place for you now.
So if you have any questions
about making that transition,
please come see us at our lab tomorrow,
and we'd be glad to help you with that.
So the text nerd in me is very
excited to be able to talk
about some of our new features.
So this first slide is one
of a number on line bounds.
So when I say line bounds,
so of course Core Text takes an
attributed string as input and gives
you a line with positioned glyphs and
all the relevant style information.
And when I say line bounds,
I mean the measurements
that pertain to that CT line
object as it's been laid out.
So these are the measurements
or metrics we sometimes call
them for that laid out line.
What I've done in this slide
is I've taken the results
of calling an existing API,
CT line get typographic bounds,
on this attributed string where I've
set this text using the Heffler text.
text font.
: And what I've done is I've
constructed a bit of a diagram
showing what those values represent.
And so, of course,
the width of this rectangle would
be the width as returned by the API.
The
In the lower left, near the lower left,
there's sort of an orange blob
which indicates the line origin.
That's kind of a reference point for all
the measurements in this particular line.
And then for this slide,
I've also indicated the
baseline on which the text sits.
So basically it's y equals
zero across the line there.
And so of course the amount of
the box below the baseline is
the descent and the amount above
would be the ascent of the line.
And one thing to note about this
particular example is that the
way the font is constructed,
you'll note that there's
not quite enough room here.
So this is kind of a way that
some older fonts were constructed,
but imagine if this line had an
accent above the capital letter here,
or one of these other
letters with a sender.
And there would be no room
for it in the line bounds.
And so I call this out because
internally what Cortex has done
in the past when you're filling
a frame using CTFramesetter,
Core Text has applied an adjustment
factor in order to pad out the lines to
give space for those accented capital
letters because they're incredibly
common in other Latin-based languages.
So not English,
you probably wouldn't see many,
but for other languages
you certainly would.
And so we need to provide that
room so that the text won't
regularly be falling outside of
the frame that you've supplied.
So now, instead,
I'd like to call a new API.
This is available in
Mountain Lion and iOS 6,
ctline-get-bounds-with-options.
So right now I'm calling this
particular API with no options,
that's the zero.
I'll be touching on some
options in just a moment.
But the one thing that I hope you'll note
is that compared to the previous results,
there's two things.
One is that the result you
can't see on the slide,
but it is actually returned as simply
a CG rectangle or CG rect since it's
generally a lot easier to deal with
a single value being returned from
a function than a number of output
parameters as with the older function.
And also the default result of this,
calling this new API,
includes that adjustment that we
had previously applied internally
that you could sort of deduce by,
you know, reverse engineering where the
line ended up in the frame.
But now you can simply
access that directly.
And so if you needed to match that
computation for whatever reason,
then it's available to
you through this new API.
As I advance to the next few slides,
I want to call your attention in
particular to the left and right
sides of this rectangle on screen.
Because I'm going to start passing some
different options to this API and it's
going to have an effect on either side.
So let's go ahead and advance now
as I invoke "Use Optical Bounds".
So this is a very slight difference here,
but you may have noticed that
the edges of the box have been
pulled in a little bit here.
What's going on here is that
optical bounds are very closely
related to the typographic bounds,
the regular measurement of the line,
but in this case the font designer has
specified that the way that the font
is likely to be perceived by our eyes
means that they don't line up exactly
with just the glyph measurements.
And so the optical bounds in this
case have been designed to pull in
on either of these curly quotes here,
because the way our eyes see rounded
shapes is a bit different than
the way we see straight lines,
and so the font designer has
compensated for that by providing
this information in the font.
The next option we're going to see is
going to be a very much more obvious
change as we use hanging punctuation.
So this is an option.
It's sometimes seen
in some typeset pages.
Gutenberg did some of it,
but it kind of fell to the wayside.
Well,
computers can make this a lot easier.
Hanging punctuation is the process of
letting the insignificant punctuation
in a line hang off of either
margin in a frame or on a page.
So of course this requires knowing
that that can possibly happen and
so not simply clipping the text to
the immediate bounds of the frame.
But this is certainly a
pretty interesting example.
One thing I would note is that of course
not every glyph can hang off either side.
Some of them are limited
to just the right or left,
for instance.
And this information
can come from the font.
The AAT prop table has a "can hang" bit.
That the font designer can set indicating
that they want a particular glyph
to hang on one side or the other.
But in the absence of that information,
since that's not super common yet,
you can... Core Text also has a list
of characters that are appropriate
for hanging on the correct sides
for standard Roman typography.
So that's something you can play
with even without a particular font.
The last example I'm going to show you
how you can combine these two options.
Another subtle thing here,
but watch on the left side
of this box as I advance.
And you'll see there the
effect of applying both hanging
punctuation and optical bounds.
What's happened here is that the
font designer has set the cap
J so that of course it's snug up
against that curly quote there,
but the font designer also decided
that when set against the left margin,
that cap J should get a little
bit of extra space so that the
tail isn't hanging completely
out as it would otherwise.
So that's an example of how
options can be combined.
Another variant of calling this
API is to use glyph path bounds.
So previous to the availability
of CTLineGetBounds with options
and still available is an
API called CTLineGetImageBounds.
But it was a bit of a misnomer
in that it was doing exactly
what this option is doing,
which is simply computing the
minimum bounding rectangle of all
of the glyph paths in the line.
And it was also pretty
difficult to actually use.
If you've tried to use it,
it's rather cumbersome.
So we wanted to make it
available through this new API.
It's a lot simpler to use.
But I also wanted to call out
the fact that these glyph path
bounds are not generally relevant
when dealing with typography.
Since, as you can imagine,
it depends greatly on what the
particular glyphs in a line are.
So you wouldn't want to use
these glyph path bounds when
determining how to set two lines,
one after the other,
on top of each other.
Because if one of the lines
didn't have any descenders,
for instance, which can happen,
then of course you wouldn't see
anything below the baseline whatsoever.
So this value is more appropriate
for input to some other process.
Maybe you're implementing a drawing
application and need to know
the coverage of the glyph paths.
Or maybe the glyph paths themselves
are part of a graphical composition
that you're using in your application.
Or document handling.
But this is available as
another option for the new API.
It's all fine and good.
I mean, information is good,
but another way to make use of
this is to actually apply it,
and you can do that automatically
using a new paragraph style specifier,
which is used by CTFramesetter to affect
the line edges during frame filling.
So, for instance,
if you specified the option
for using hang punctuation and
set that on a paragraph style,
CTFramesetter would automatically
hang that punctuation and vary the
line lengths appropriately to make
that effect possible very easily.
The other big feature that we
wanted to call your attention
to is baseline alignment.
This is kind of a case
of back to the future.
This technology has
been around for a while,
but it's been a bit neglected.
But as we expand our
global coverage in Apple,
one of the things that we learned is
that the naive way of doing things
wasn't sufficient when dealing with
mixed scripts or writing systems.
Because some of them have
very different typographic
conventions relative to Roman text.
So I wanted to give you some examples
of how this is actually useful
or why it might be interesting.
Certainly it's interesting to us and you
might have some ideas as to how to put
it to use in your application as well.
So in this example we have "Hello World!"
but "world" is set in Han characters,
so if you speak Chinese, for instance,
it might make sense.
I did a rough translation there.
This is the layout that you would
currently get from Core Text or
any higher level framework.
It looks okay.
What I've done is I've
set that string in Myriad,
but of course since Myriad the
font doesn't contain either
of those Han characters,
we have font fallback occurring here.
So this is a different font
that has the Han characters.
And it looks okay.
Everything is set on
this blue baseline here,
which I'm going to call
the natural baseline.
This is just placing
each glyph origin at y=0.
But a native speaker of Chinese perhaps
might note that their baseline
actually should sit a bit lower
than the standard Roman baseline.
And so by enabling baseline alignment
here to let those Han characters
sit on the ideographic baseline,
a native speaker would feel that
this is a much better appearance.
Now this is a bit of a subtle example,
and so I wanted another example that
would make things a bit more obvious.
So here's another "Hello
World," this part in Hindi.
And so what's interesting about
the Devanagari script is that it
actually operates on a different
notion of a baseline completely.
It uses what's called a hanging baseline.
And so rather than natively
setting on top of a baseline,
such as this natural baseline here,
you'll see that there's a crossbar
from which the letters hang.
And so a native speaker would
expect that when you change
the point size of that text,
that it would actually,
if you made it larger,
it would actually extend down
from that hanging baseline,
rather than sitting higher
up as we're used to,
or we English speakers are used to.
And so I'm going to increase
the point size by quite a
bit to emphasize the effect,
but this is actually the
expected behavior for a script
that uses a hanging baseline.
And so a native speaker would
expect that when you change
the point size of that text,
that it would actually,
if you made it larger,
it would actually extend down
from that hanging baseline,
rather than sitting higher
up as we're used to,
or English speakers are used to.
And so a native speaker would
expect that when you change
the point size of that text,
that it would actually extend
down from that hanging baseline,
rather than sitting higher
up as we're used to,
or English speakers are used to,
or even if you're using
a natural baseline,
that it would actually extend
down from that hanging baseline.
So you'll see here that even
though the line itself still has
the expected natural baseline,
the larger point size of that
Devanagari text causes it to hang down.
So that's great,
but maybe you're not localizing your
application into a language that
requires this type of special treatment.
The other neat thing about baseline
alignment is that you can use it for some
more fun effects maybe or something else.
We'll find out what you
all can come up with.
In this particular example,
I'm just going to implement some
simple drop caps like you might see
at the beginning of a children's
storybook or maybe a magazine that you
read uses an effect similar to this.
But this example I'm going to
make use of that hanging baseline
from the previous example,
but I'm just going to apply it
manually to these capital letters.
And so in this case I can override
the baseline for the Roman glyphs
here and set them on the hanging
baseline as I change their size.
So how do you actually do this?
Well,
Each font has multiple baselines.
A baseline is essentially a
vertical offset relative to that
natural baseline I was showing you.
And there are a number of them
that I've shown you already.
The Roman,
which in most fonts corresponds
to the natural baseline.
Ideographic, hanging in there,
a couple of others for certain purposes.
Each glyph in a font has associated
with it a default baseline.
One of those types of baselines is
appropriate for each glyph by default.
Either the font can specify that or
we'll use the character range in which
that character comes from to determine
what the baseline should be by default.
And then the process of alignment is
simply taking two adjacent runs of text,
either with different fonts
or different attributes.
One of them is going to be a reference,
that is, it's going to stay put,
and the other one is going to move
up or down so that we can pick the
same type of baseline from each
of those runs and match them up.
So that's what baseline
alignment is going to be doing.
: We do this by specifying
those alignment parameters
using string attributes.
The most important one is the reference,
which is specified using the
reference info attribute.
And this is what activates
baseline alignment.
By default, it's disabled because, A,
we don't want to be affecting the
layout of text that you previously
expected to see in a certain way,
and also because, well, it would be rude.
So you need to specify that in some way.
And then some options are to also give
some special definition to the baselines
being moved and also overriding which
particular baseline in the set of
baselines is going to be aligned.
Otherwise,
we'll use the default baseline.
So this is what it looks
like in its simplest form.
This is how I implemented both
of the Hello World examples.
What I've done is I have a
mutable attributed string.
I'm adding my reference info to it,
and that's a dictionary containing
various keys and values,
but the important one in this
case is the reference font.
This says -- this defines the set of
baselines relative to which I'm going
to move anything that might need moving.
So this will be applied
to any fallback fonts,
for instance,
and we can also use it in the
case of the point size changes.
So since a CT font has
an inherent point size,
of course, in the Hindi example when
we changed the point size,
the reference font remained unchanged.
I didn't change that
in that example at all,
and so it used the hanging baseline.
from the original point size.
[Transcript missing]
And as I mentioned previously about using
the highest level framework possible,
you may be doing this all
from the App Kit level.
And so App Kit also added
NS Font Collection in Lion and,
of course, that's toll-free bridge
with CT Font Collection.
So instances of either class can be
used interchangeably with either API,
either Core Texts or App Kits.
And it remains the preferred
way to enumerate fonts.
So if your application needs to
get a list of fonts available
to it while it's running,
then CT Font Collection is the most
efficient way to access that information.
Another feature pertains
to typographic features.
So Core Text supports two font formats,
both AAT, Apple Advanced Typography,
and OpenType.
And both of these font
formats have what are called
typographic or layout features.
They're special rules essentially
in the font that change the layout.
So a simple example would be
a ligature where two glyphs
appearing next to each other would
get combined into a ligated glyph.
But there are lots of other typographic
features that fonts might offer.
And
Since Core Text API is modeled
after the AAT font specification,
there were some OpenType features
that weren't easily accessible.
That is that you couldn't
activate those features in code.
[Transcript missing]
So the way things were is that if you saw
an AAT feature specified in our header,
SFNTLayoutTypes.h,
and it had a natural correspondence,
a natural equivalence
with an OpenType feature,
then activating,
requesting that AAT feature for an
OpenType font would do the right thing.
But there were quite a few
OpenType features that didn't have
a natural correspondence with an
existing AAT feature specification.
And so what we've done in
Mountain Lion and iOS 6 is
we've added new features,
new AAT features that naturally
correspond to one of these
OpenType features that was
previously inaccessible.
So in this example,
I'm enabling Petite Caps,
which is under the PCAP lookup
in an OpenType font.
And so we've added this new feature.
And so we've added this new AAT feature
in order to activate the OpenType
layout for this particular font.
And this is something we'll
be revisiting in the future.
We may add a new API for direct access,
but in the meantime,
this should get you going with nearly
all of the commonly requested OpenType
features to enable in your fonts.
And on a bit of trivia,
I would note that as of OS X Lion,
AppKit added NSWritingDirection
for specifying bidirectional
embedding or overrides.
And I'm not going to go into it now,
but suffice it to say that
it's now implemented at the
Core Text level as well,
which makes near as much
no difference on OS X,
but of course it means that now this
feature is available on iOS as well.
So if you have been making use of that,
now you can do so on iOS.
Okay, well,
we got the easy stuff out of the way,
right?
No, this next section is not so
much advanced topics as it is
perhaps a bit of a grab bag.
We hear a number of questions
from developers repeatedly,
and so we thought that we'd address
some of these common questions that
seem to come up as we talk to you,
and we also want to call out some new
tidbits that you might be interested in.
Amen.
The first is vertical text.
Perhaps the trickiest thing with vertical
text is just figuring out where to start.
And so I'm not going to delve
a lot into vertical text,
but I would like to give just
a quick overview of what that
means from a layout perspective.
So there are two steps in
enabling vertical text.
One is getting the right layout,
that is selecting the proper
glyphs for vertical layout.
And the other is getting the
line to go in the right place.
So naturally instead of
sitting horizontally across
a frame or page or whatever,
it needs to go vertically.
Well, the good news is those two steps
are pretty much unrelated other
than in the way that they're used.
And so we can demonstrate what
it means to enable vertical text by
following those two steps in action.
The first thing we're going to do
is enable those vertical glyphs,
or activate vertical
layout for this line.
We're going to do that by setting a
string attribute to a Boolean value
of "yes." Essentially what that does
from the line's perspective -- the line
doesn't really care what it's doing here,
but if you look at it in
a horizontal perspective,
it kind of looks like all the glyphs
are just lying on their sides.
Now,
all of these glyphs are simply rotated,
but in some cases,
they might require slightly
different glyph forms,
or they might get different
metrics or whatever,
but for this simple example,
I'm just going to show
them being rotated.
So that's great, but of course it's
still not very legible,
and so what we need to do
next is we simply just need to
rotate that line into place.
And so you'll note that
these are somewhat unrelated,
but they're both necessary for
actually making use of vertical text.
So it's pretty easy to do that,
but it's also not, because there's a lot
of rotation involved.
Some things go one way and
other things go the other.
And the way that our graphic system is
based makes it fairly complicated to keep
track of all these various transforms
that are in flight at one time.
And so use a higher level framework.
If possible,
you should check out NSTextView on OS X.
It has really great support
for vertical writing.
And so we'd urge you to go
that route if at all possible.
You'll get all the benefits
of NSTextView besides.
If you can't or don't want to do that,
then CTFramesetter has an option
that you can set when creating a
frame that will do the rotation
for you and take into account the
proper bounds for vertical writing.
And then of course the vertical
glyphs are simply just enabled
by the string attribute.
But if you're not using one of those,
like I said,
it's surprisingly complicated,
and so I would urge you to
come talk to us during our lab
or grab us some other time,
and we can talk about what it
means and get you going on that.
Font names.
So, fonts have lots of names.
Most fonts have a lot more names
than I can show on this slide,
in fact.
If you're curious,
you can take a look at what you
can find in FontBook on OS X,
where you'll see a lot of,
most if not all of the
names in a particular font.
But in this case,
I wanted to use a particular
example of Times New Roman Italic.
The first name on this
slide is the most important.
It's called the Postscript Name.
We use it internally as
a sort of identifier or,
you know, a unique token for each font
that is installed on the system.
So what's special about this name is,
well, for one,
certain characters are illegal in it.
That's simply a specification thing,
so you'll know if there's no spaces,
that's a good giveaway that
it's a PostScript name.
But also, crucially, it's not localized.
Most, if not all,
other font names can be localized.
So Times New Roman might not be
Times New Roman in every language.
Another thing to note is that although
it looks like the full or display name,
depending on the terminology, is unique,
you'll note that these other two names,
the family and style names,
those are almost definitely not unique.
In particular,
the family name is probably shared
among other fonts in the same family,
so Times New Roman Bold, for instance,
would have the same family name.
And likewise,
the style name is probably that
same thing for lots and lots
of other fonts on the system.
And why does this matter?
Well, there's a function that I'm
almost positive that you know of,
having used Core Text,
called ctfontcreateWithName.
And this function was designed to
accept just the PostScript name.
But we made the decision a while ago
in order to be a bit more generous
and accept any of these names.
But the problem is that on a
more constrained environment,
like you would find on an iOS device,
this can be quite costly to actually
provide a reasonable result for
anything other than the PostScript name.
So as I mentioned, you have the case of
localized names to deal with.
You could also specify the family name,
in which case we try to
do something consistent.
We try to consistently give you
the standard weight of that family.
But that of course means we
need to figure out what all of
the members of that family are.
There's a lot of
processing that's going on.
And so we've got a number of scenarios
brought to us by developers where
they've been simply creating a font and
things kind of just grind to a halt.
and that's because we
were trying to be nice.
We're going to stop being so lenient.
So in a future release of OS X and iOS,
we are going to
[Transcript missing]
So rest assured this behavior is going
to remain in its current state for
any of your applications until they
are linked against that future OS.
But now is a good time to start
updating your code to make sure
you're supplying the right kind of
name to CT Font Create With Name.
So what we've done in iOS
X is we've added some logging.
In this case,
someone has inadvertently specified
I don't know, it's probably the family
name for Noya Helvetica,
when in fact the PostScript name
obviously is going to
not have a space for one.
But the developer in this case can
set a breakpoint on this function
in the second log statement,
and they can check the backtrace
and see what code is responsible
for using the wrong name.
So you might be asking yourself, well,
what am I supposed to do if I want
to use one of those other names?
Well,
we've always had a way of doing that.
It's just that it wasn't really
needed because you could just
do it the easy way instead.
But basically what you would
want to do in that case,
maybe you have a document format that
specifies a different type of name.
Or maybe you're even getting data
from the Internet where you can't
really know in advance that it's going
to be a postscript name necessarily.
And so in this case what you
can do is you can use a font
descriptor as a sort of a query.
In this case the attributes specify
a family name of Times New Roman.
And by using that particular attribute
when creating matching font descriptors,
then you're telling Core Text that
it's only to consult family names
that it knows about in order to
find an appropriate font or fonts.
And there are other attributes for,
for instance,
the display name and the style name,
and you can use those as appropriate.
So basically by signaling your intent,
by telling us exactly which name you're
trying to find a matching font for,
we can do a much better job
of not grinding to a halt.
Font fallback, some would say,
is a crucial component to Unicode
Text Layout because up until recently
it's been impossible to construct a
single font that covers all of Unicode.
And besides,
doing so would be prohibitively
costly and time consuming.
So basically,
Unicode wants you to be able to specify
any character in the standard and it's
entirely unlikely that you're going
to try to adjust the font for every
particular character in that string.
And so it's very important to
be able to rely on having a
fallback mechanism in place.
And so our default mechanism for
that we call the system cascade,
which is a list of fonts that will
consult if the specified font is
not the one that you're looking for.
And so our default mechanism for that
is that the specified font does not
cover one or more of the characters in
the string that you've asked to layout.
But in some cases,
developers have asked for a way to modify
the behavior of the system cascade.
Well,
the mechanism we've had in place for
-- since the beginning of Core Text is
to use this attribute to specify the
cascade list or user cascade list as
opposed to the system cascade list.
And what that is is a list of fonts
that you can specify as an attribute
to either a font or a font descriptor,
and we will consult those in order
whenever we need to search for fallback.
Prior to consulting the system cascade.
So one thing you could also do with
this mechanism like this is to find
out when you want to -- some developers
have asked us that they don't want
to consult the system cascade at all.
They just want to use their own
fallback fonts and they want to
be able to detect when they've run
out of those fonts effectively.
And so all you need is a font that
covers every character in Unicode.
Probably isn't going to be able
to do anything useful with that,
but it at least claims to support every
character in Unicode and both of our
platforms have a font with that property.
It's called Last Resort.
And so if you specify that,
it will act as a terminator in
the user fallback cascade list.
And so you can detect that that's
occurred by checking the run
attributes on the line and see
that that has been the case.
Now, I did say that up until recently
you couldn't construct a font
that covered all of Unicode.
Well, Mountain Lion adds support
for a new ISO IEC standard
for composite font references.
And this is an XML standard or
XML specification that allows you to
define a single font as being built
up of multiple component fonts.
And there's a lot of attributes and
fine tuning that you can do on that.
So if you have very,
very specific fallback functionality
to be implemented on Mountain Lion,
you could check out the composite
font DTD on the Mountain Lion install.
A lot of you are embedding fonts
in your application bundle,
most likely by sticking an OpenType
or TrueType font in your app bundle,
maybe in the resources
directory or somewhere else.
But some of you have noted that you've
talked to font vendors and the vendor
has a licensing requirement that says
that they don't want you doing that.
They don't want you to be able to just
put a font file in your bundle where
someone could come along and just
snoop it and find it and take it out.
And so I wanted to note that you
don't need fonts to be in their
own files in order to activate
them for use in your application.
Thank you.
This has always been the case,
but we've added a lot
of the permutations,
and so you should have a lot of
flexibility in being able to do that now.
So one example would be maybe you
want to take the font data and compile
it into your application somehow.
Or maybe you want to take a bunch of
font files and you want to splice them
together into a single big file that
doesn't look like a font file on its own,
but you know how to extract the
individual font pieces out of that.
There's a number of ways to do this.
Once you have found the data
for the font that you want to
activate in your application,
one way to do it on Mountain Lion or
iOS is to create a graphics font,
we call it,
or a CG font ref with that data.
And then in this particular example,
I'm going to register that
graphics font using CT font
manager register graphics font.
And by registering it,
what that does is it means that
I can go ahead and access that
font using any of its names.
So for instance,
if I could use CT font create with
name using the PostScript name of
that particular font that I had
registered and access it that way.
Alternatively,
I could create a CT font directly
from that graphics font using
CT font create with graphics font.
And then on Lion or higher,
there's another option that
you have which is to create a
font descriptor from that data.
That's another way of doing this.
It's a bit interesting
because by doing that,
you make the font not
available via its names.
You need to have that font descriptor on
hand in order to create a font from it.
Same as if you had created a
CT font from the graphics font.
So that way,
if you for some reason wanted to
know exactly what part of your
code was making use of that font,
then you'd have to hand
around this font descriptor,
a reference to it, in order to be able to
create a font from it.
: We do have some sample code which
we have posted for WWDC which has
an application that demonstrates
one technique for doing this.
It demonstrates having some
fonts that are bundled up,
not in their own files,
but bundled up in an application,
showing you how to activate that,
one way to activate it anyway,
and also demonstrates using those
fonts in a user cascade list.
So you can see both of
these last two slides,
there's a code sample available
to you that you can pull
down and take a look at.
So emoji.
Emoji are these great little graphics,
these images that are text,
but they're also colorful and exciting.
And people have really,
really gotten into emoji.
Since they first appeared on iOS
and then were adapted to be part
of the Unicode specification,
we've seen incredible adoption of these.
I'm sure you've sent or received
a few of these guys yourself
and many others besides.
So, but there are a few notes to be
made when dealing with emoji.
One is that we've ended up with
sort of a case of emoji soup.
The problem that many people ran into
when first trying to make use of emoji,
whether as a developer or as a user,
is that many of these emoji
characters had been unified,
as they were called,
with existing Unicode characters.
So in this particular example,
if I had a document or a message
or something where I sent it
to some other platform and
opened it up and read it there,
I couldn't be guaranteed whether
I would see the text representation,
the sort of black and white
pictograph there on top,
or the emoji representation,
which in Lion and iOS 5 was
a completely different glyph.
So we have tweaked some things
to make some of these problematic
glyphs more accessible.
So we've done some of these
things to make some of these
glyphs less problematic,
but there are still cases where you
may need to programmatically identify
which particular representation of one
of these unified characters you need.
And so the solution specified by Unicode
is to define variation sequences.
So these are essentially character
tags that you can apply that
indicate that one of these particular
representations is to be preferred.
And so if you simply sent
that heart character,
you wouldn't be guaranteed
any particular appearance.
In particular,
due to historical constraints,
some platforms prefer
the text representation,
some prefer the emoji-style presentation.
But using a variation sequence
for this particular character,
the middle example,
I've specified the text
variation selector,
and so if possible,
the system will give me
the text representation.
And of course, the last example there is
the emoji-style presentation.
And so... you can control that
using those variation sequences.
And these are supported on
both Mountain Lion and iOS 6.
In particular, some cases,
maybe your user interface
designer had used a glyph as
part of a user interface element,
and all of a sudden things
blew up when things changed due
to the Unicode specification.
And so in this case,
you can specify exactly what you need.
When it comes to drawing color glyphs,
well, there's actually a -- you know,
the font has to be different
in order to carry this color
information around with it.
And so simply using the lowest level
function in order to draw glyphs
from that font is not going to work.
But so basically, again,
it comes down to a case of using
the highest level framework.
If you're simply drawing
a string using AppKit,
UIKit, whatever,
everything will work just fine.
If you're using one of the
standard CT drawing functions,
CT frame draw, line draw, run draw,
again, that will work just fine.
You'll end up with the standard glyphs
or the color glyphs as necessary.
But if you are drawing directly
into a CG context yourself,
the solution is to use
CT font draw glyphs.
You can use this on any font.
It doesn't have to be a font with color.
It's just a font that you can
use to show glyphs at positions.
And so if you're drawing a color glyph,
this will do the right thing
whether or not it's a black and
white glyph or a color glyph.
So simply use that.
It's analogous to that CG context
show glyphs at positions function.
And you'll get the correct behavior.
You might also have instances where
your font is displaying text using
some fancy graphical treatment.
And that treatment may not work properly
in the presence of color glyphs.
And so if you need to identify
that a glyph itself has color data,
you can do so by consulting
the CT font symbolic traits.
And if a font supports color glyphs,
then you can check for an individual
glyph whether or not it has an outline,
and the absence of an outline
would signify a color glyph.
So speaking of drawing into a CG context,
another question that comes up is, well,
how do I have control over the
drawing parameters for that context?
So as I mentioned,
Core Text was designed to
be easily interoperable,
you know,
directly accessible for use with
CG context drawing if necessary.
So one instance might be you
have some sort of fancy display
where you need to stroke the
glyphs with different parameters.
You might do it once in one stroke width
and then again with another stroke width.
But you want to reuse those glyphs,
that layout,
between both those drawing operations.
And you say, well, gee,
I don't want to have to specify a
different string attribute and then
get a new line and draw it all.
Well, that's not necessary.
So the goal here is that Core Text should
only set what it needs to.
And it should respect
what was otherwise set.
So let me explain what that means.
So most string attributes correspond
to a particular drawing parameter.
That is,
there's a stroke width string attribute.
And if you've specified that,
it should take precedence over
whatever was set in that CG context
that you're going to draw into.
But if it's absent,
and since it's defined as being unset,
it doesn't affect the drawing
parameter for the stroke width,
then you should be able to specify that
directly as a context drawing parameter.
And then make sure that that
attribute isn't present in the
string that you're laying out.
And so that way you can
set it to your first value,
draw the string,
and then set it to the next
value and draw the string.
And Core Text will respect that because,
of course, it's just drawing through
Core Graphics itself.
But that way you have very
fine-grained control over what
is getting set in that context.
One exception to the rule, of course,
is the foreground color.
As was mentioned in the
Attributed Strings introduction
just previous to this session,
that attribute has a
default value of black.
And so if you want to modify the
foreground color between drawing a line,
then of course you'll need
to specify foreground color
from context attribute name.
It takes a Boolean,
and when that's set to true,
Core Text will not touch that
drawing parameter either.
Finally, one more oldie but goodie.
Core Text will not synthesize
missing font styles.
And by missing, I mean you might expect,
coming from other platforms
or older technologies,
that you can simply request a
bold font and get a bold version
of whatever font you're using.
Well, Core Text has always taken the
approach that it should prefer the
information given to it by the font.
If the designer hasn't gone
to the trouble of drawing
a bold version of the font,
then Core Text is not going
to take it upon itself to try
to make the plain weight bold.
There are some developers who need
to be able to bold arbitrary fonts.
Perhaps they have some document format
that requires that they indicate
a bold font or some other reason.
You can certainly implement your own
synthetic styles in your application,
but this is something that Core Text is
still not going to ever do.
One approach for instance for
synthesizing an italic would be to
simply skew the font matrix and that
would give you a slanted appearance,
not a true italic appearance,
but that might be one way.
For bolding,
there's really no one panacea.
There's no one great way of doing that.
So of course if you need
any more information,
there are a number of nice links here
to Jake Behrens who is the evangelist.
He can help you locate information if
you're having a hard time with that.
Otherwise, of course,
there's the standard documentation,
interface guidelines.
Developer Forum is a very,
very helpful resource for finding
out from your peer developers how
to make use of this technology more
effectively and also Apple engineers.
Again, very,
very interesting stuff given in the
UI kit sessions on Attributed Strings.
You will have already missed
the introduction to Attributed
Strings session as it's passed now,
but you'll be able to
catch it on tape delay,
I'm sure.
Also the advanced Attributed
Strings session is going on
tomorrow morning at 10:15,
so I urge you to check that out.
There's going to be some really
neat stuff discussed there.
And with that,
I'd say thank you very much and have
a wonderful rest of the conference.